Apartments of the Amen temple and
with the addition of a porch to the
front portal by Thutmose III (prior to
his eventual dismantling of the entire
structure, to make room for his own
Amen barque shrine).
This volume is indeed an out-
standing example of the modern scien-
tific publication of Egypt`s monuments.
It is to be presumed that at least a
forthcoming second volume (this being
Volume I) will deal with the
scriptions of the Red Chapel.
textual in-
IMAGINING EGYPT
A Ltvtrvc PORTRAIT or
THE TIME OF THE PHARAOHS
written Sr illustrated by Mark Millmore
2007, Black Dog Sr Leventhal (New
York); 192 pp., 1005 of color illus.;
hardcover, $24.95; ISBN I-57912-547-6
fyoumnaffordtoaddjustonebook
to your Egyptologf   in 2£I)7, make
it bnqgining Egypt! It is an amazing piece
of Work by a graphic artist and  
er who has no fomial  
but has nonetheless produced a volume
that should be required   for every
Ancimt Egypt 101 course.
As he reveals in his introduc-
tion to Imagining, Brit Mark Millmore
has harbored a fascination for all
things ancient Egyptian since the age of
six, when he was introduced to the “ex-
ploits of the pharaohs" by his grandfa-
ther. After acquiring an art degree, a
trip to Egypt in 1982 changed his own
artwork “forever” The trip from Alex-
andria to Aswan also inspired him to
find out all he could about the ancient
Egyptians, their culture and creations.
He found many of the books he stud-
ied on the subject “so esoteric they were
virtually unreadable.” Then in the mid-
`8Os, Millmore discovered ancient
Egypt`s self-appointed spokesperson of
that timef fellow Brit john Romer, whose
films and books evoking the “human
dimension of ancient Egyptian society"
opened a doorway for the youthful
Egyptophile.
Inspired by Romer, Millmore
created a website in 1996 (wwwdiscover-
ing egypt.com), on which he featured
his own drawings, paintings and photos
of Egyptological subjects, as well as his
"persona: and opinionated writings about
the ancient peoples of the Nile," plus com-
puter-generated recreations of some of
the ancient temples, “showing them as
they might have appeared when new.”
Much to his surprise, the website became
very popular, receiving some 15,000
"hits" per day, and generated a great
deal of e-mail with questions from
school kids, teachers and adults alike.
Millmore would spend up to an hour
a day responding to these questions,
“checking the answers in Egyptology
books and rephrasing the information so
that it might be understood by any curi-
ous person. ”
Imagining Egypt is the conse-
quence of these inquiries and replies,
the author having decided to combine
his personal visions of the ancient cul-
ture and its history and achievements
together in a book lavishly illustrated
with his own art, photography, graphics
and recreations.
The volume is organized into
nine chapters following the Introduction,
concluding with a Glossary and Index.
The layout or design of Imagining is
heavily dependent on sidebars, or mini-
essays partitioned off from the basic
flow of text. This may present a chal-
lenge for some readers, who must de-
cide whether to read the textual narra-
tive first and then go back and read
each chapter`s several sidebars, or to
interrupt the narrative and deal with
the sidebar texts as they are presented.
Chapter I is titled "In the Be-
ginning - Unlocking the Wonders of
Ancient Egypt" and provides a brief his-
torical background for the Egyptolog-
ical novice, with sidebars on the sub-
jects of “The Narmer Palette," “The Mace,"
"The Story of Osiris and Isis" and "The
Story of Horus and Seth."
Chapter II, “Kings and Queens,"
deals, obviously, with ancient Egyptian
kingship, with a focus on several indi-
vidual rulers: Pepi II, Amertemhat I,
Hatshepsut, Thutmose III, Amenhotep III,
Akhenaten, Tutankhamun, Rameses II,
Rameses III and Cleopatra VII. The chap-
ter`s many sidebars are: "Crowns and
Regalia," “The Names of Pharaoh," "The
Name of Rameses II," “The Letter of Pepi
ll," “Nubia," "Libya," "The Hyksos," “The
Land of Punt," “Meggido," “Thoiutii Ra-
hotep - How Thoutii took the town of
joppa," "Amenhotep, son of Hapu," "The
"Monotheistic,"
"Letter ofYapahu
I~Iittites," “The
of Kadesh," “Queen
Peoples," “Alexan-
dria" and “Herodes Magnus."
“The Pyramids," Chapter III is
subdivided into “Saqqara," "The Great
Pyramid at Giza," "The Second Pyra-
mid at Giza" and “The Third Pyramid
at Giza," supplemented by the sidebars
“Imhotep," “How Did They Do It?",
"The Golden Lotus," “Khufu`s Solar
Boat," "Location of the Pyramids and
"The Prince and the Sphinx."
Chapter IV “The Temples," dis-
cusses “Cult and Funerary Temples,"
“The Temple of Karnak," "Luxor Temple,"
“Madinat Habu" (author`s spelling),
Colossi of Memnon,"
"The Amarna Letters,"
of Gerzu," "The
Chariot," "The Battle
Nefertari," "The Sea
"Temple of Dendara" and "Temple of
Philae," bettefiting from MiIlmore`s
stunning recreations. Sidebars are: "The
basic layout of a New Kingdom Temple,"
“Hypostylcf "Coptic Church," "How Did
they Do lt?" and "How an obelisk might
have been erected."
Chapter V is arguably the vol-
ume`s best, certainly the most "fun" for
the novice Egyptophile and covers
“Hieratic," "The Hieroglyphic Script,"
“Numbers and Mathematics" and "Pa-
pyrus, the Wonder Plant," The several
sidebars are "Craftsman," "Scribes," “The
Rosetta Stone," "Cartouche," How your
name would have looked in ancient
Egypt," "Symbolic Symbols," "De-
terminative Symbols," “Egyptian Lan-
guage," “Word Examples," "How to
Read the Names of the Pharaohs," “Phar-
aohs Names,” “Hieroglyphic Numbers,"
"Fractions," "Ancient Egyptian Ar-
ithmetic," "Recovered Literature,"
"Papyrus," “I-Iow the Egyptian Make
Papyrus Paper" and “Fun with Hie-
roglyphs_"
"The Gods and Goddessess,"
Chapter VI, discusses "The Creation"
and is otherwise comprised of a lot of
sidebars: "Gods and Men," "The nine
gods of the Great Ennead," "The Gods"
(which does not, for whatever reason,
include Min), “Osiris Trains His Son,"
“Why a Year Has 365 Days" and "The
Eternal Battle of Apepi and Ra."
Chapter VII, “Daily Life in Ancient
Egypt," discusses the roles of “Men and
Women," "Children," "Slaves," "Costume,"
"Food," "Drink," “The House," “The Pal-
ace," “Gamcs and Sport," Music and
Dance" and “Calendar Systems," with
sidebars including: “The Police," "The
Letter of Hekanakhte," "Bread," "Her-
odotus," “How to Play Senet," "The
Workers Go on Strike" and “Class in
Egypt."
"Land of the Dead" has mini-
mal text, being mostly sidebars: “The
Mummification Process,” "Natron," “The
Funeral,""Coffins and Sarcophagi,"
"False Door," "Shabtis," "judgment of the
Dead," “Thejourney of the Dead," "The
Book of the Dead," "Magic Spells from
the Book of the Dead," “The Realm of
Dual," “The Elysian Field" and “The Val-
ley of the Kings," with focus on KV5,
KV34 and KV9,
Millinore`s final chapter, IX,
"The Dynasties," presents a timeline `ux-
taposed against brief discussions oil all
thirty-one dynasties (with king lists)
and the Ptoleinies.
A criticism of Imagining is that
the author often presents outdated in-
formation (e.g., Hatshepsut and Senen-
mut were lovers, a would-be king had
to marry his eldest sister _ or the de-
funct “heiress theory")_ But with all the
pluses of the volume, these few errors
can be overlooked.
D.Forbes
87 Kmt

